MTM-62874 add changelog about jetty upgrade to 12.0.25 in java SDK (#3781)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/cumulocity-2025-72-0-upgrade-jetty-in-sdk-to-ver-12.md

---
date:

> title: Upgrade jetty in java SDK to version 12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Upgraded Jetty in Java SDK to version 12
```

product_area: Platform services
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4

>     label: Improvement

Author: @BeateRixen / @kaczynskid-sag should it be improvement or announcement?

Also question about "Product area", since I found from 2023 the following entry:
<img width="871" height="190" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ba952dca-7c2b-41e3-8291-21c2a60f440c" />

`Platform services` or `Application enablement & solutions` ?

Reviewer: It is an improvement, announcements are done upfront for deprecations etc. 
The component was "Microservice SDK", so the product area must be Application enablement & solutions. Same withJava SDK.

Author: changed and squashed into first commit

component:
  - value: QWPx3rFfn
    label: Java SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-62874
version: 2025.72.0
---

> The jetty library version in java SDK was upgraded from the version 11.0.24 to the most recent version 12.0.25, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jetty library version in the Java SDK was upgraded from version 11.0.24 to the most recent version 12.0.25. 
```

> The Jetty library version in the Java SDK was upgraded from version 11.0.24 to the most recent version 12.0.25. 

Reviewer 2: Is there any (potential) impact on customers using the mentioned MS SDK version? If we don't anticipate any impact, a short note like "No impact to microservices is expected as part of this update." would be of help for customers.

Author: To be honest - I dont know :). For sure there are some changes between Jetty versions and I never run applications on neither of those 2 versions. Everything depends on the usage, although I think in 95%+ there is no noticeable change for customers (Spring-boot covers much). 

Nevertheless there might be some differences if clients customize Jetty settings much.

I would not add any additional claims, if customer is reasonable, then he/she should check consciously release notes and details, since we are not managing Jetty.

Reviewer 3: Can we do a quick check?  it is not a good look to make a change and then say - we have absolutely no clue if this has an impact on our customers or not!

Author: IMO this would be a huge waste of time. And previously there was no such statement:
https://cumulocity.com/docs/change-logs/#cumulocity-10-18-79-0-update-on-jetty-dependency
<img width="955" height="536" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c3e405b-0b87-443e-b4bf-f25acd7ede69" />

BTW, I do not see any changelog about upgrade(s) of versions 9.4 => current 11.0.24.

Reviewer 4: We can and should simply reference the official Jetty documentation of [Migrating from Jetty 11.0.x to Jetty 12.0.x](https://jetty.org/docs/jetty/12.1/programming-guide/migration/11-to-12.html) for potential customer impact.

Author: added link as suggested by @kaczynskid-sag

> which is compatible with current Spring-Boot version 3.5.5 in java SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This version is compatible with the current Spring Boot version 3.5.5 in the Java SDK.
```

---
date: '2025-10-06'
title: Upgraded Jetty in Java SDK to version 12
product_area: Application enablement & solutions
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Improvement
component:
  - value: QWPx3rFfn
    label: Java SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-62874
version: 2025.72.0
---

The Jetty library version in the Java SDK was upgraded from version 11.0.24 to the most recent version 12.0.25. 

> This version is compatible with the current Spring Boot version 3.5.5 in the Java SDK. Detailed upgrade notes can be found
> in the official [Jetty migration documentation](https://jetty.org/docs/jetty/12.1/programming-guide/migration/11-to-12.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This version is compatible with the current Spring Boot version 3.5.5 in the Java SDK.
No impact is expected on microservice code using standard Microservice SDK features.
In case of advanced customization of the Jetty server configuration please refer to official [migration guide from Jetty 11.0.x to Jetty 12.0.x ](https://jetty.org/docs/jetty/12.1/programming-guide/migration/11-to-12.html).
```

No need for changes when using standard MS-SDK features is evident from our internal experience of not needing to change anything in our internal agents using the SDK and no changes needed in examples repository as well.
// cc @mgrumann @JanePorter

---

The Jetty library version in the Java SDK was upgraded from version 11.0.24 to the most recent version 12.0.25. 
This version is compatible with the current Spring Boot version 3.5.5 in the Java SDK.
No impact is expected on microservice code using standard Microservice SDK features.

> In case of advanced customization of the Jetty server configuration please refer to official [migration guide from Jetty 11.0.x to Jetty 12.0.x ](https://jetty.org/docs/jetty/12.1/programming-guide/migration/11-to-12.html).

Reviewer 3: I would propose the following slight alteration to :  For microservices that use advanced customization of the Jetty server configuration we would advise referring to the official migration guide from .......

Author: applied
